Welcome to the Programming For Data Science Nanodegree.
We're so excited that we are part of your journey towards a career in data science.
If you haven't done programming before, you may ask,
why do you need programming for analysis? Good question.
Broadly speaking, two of
the most important foundational skills for analyzing data are statistics and programming.
The two main purposes for programming and data analysis.
The first is that programming allows you to work with much larger datasets than is
possible with spreadsheet applications like Excel or Google Sheets.
Google now processes 40 thousand queries per second,
which is 1.2 trillion queries every year.
Similarly, 200 billion tweets are completed on Twitter every year.
Amazon processes 1.1 billion transactions each year.
Processing this much data will not be possible without programming.
The second thing programming allows is the ability to automate processes
that previously might've had to be completed manually and will take much more time.
In this program, you will learn how you can use
programming to perform data analysis tasks.
We will start with introduction to SQL.
This will be followed by an introduction to Command Line interface and Shell.
Next, we move on to introduction to Python.
Here, you will learn Python programming and be introduced
to Python libraries, NumPy and pandas.
This will set you up nicely for the tools you need for the data analyst nanodegree,
which is the next course in the sequence.
Finally, we will introduce you to Version Control and GitHub.
This will be an exciting journey and you will not only gain valuable programming skills,
but also gain a clear insight to all you can to accomplish.
So, let's get started.